The second paradigm for attribute selection is the one followed by the `loc` operator: **label-based selection**. In this paradigm, it's the data index value, not its position, which matters.

For example, to get the first entry in `reviews`, we would now do the following:

reviews.loc[0, 'country']

'Italy'

`iloc` is conceptually simpler than `loc` because it ignores the dataset's indices. When we use `iloc` we treat the dataset like a big matrix (a list of lists), one that we have to index into by position. `loc`, by contrast, uses the information in the indices to do its work. Since your dataset usually has meaningful indices, it's usually easier to do things using `loc` instead. For example, here's one operation that's much easier using `loc`:

reviews.loc[:, ['taster_name', 'taster_twitter_handle', 'points']]

||taster_name|taster_twitter_handle|points|
|---|---|---|---|
|0|Kerin O’Keefe|@kerinokeefe|87|
|1|Roger Voss|@vossroger|87|
|...|...|...|...|
|129969|Roger Voss|@vossroger|90|
|129970|Roger Voss|@vossroger|90|

129971 rows × 3 columns

### Choosing between `loc` and `iloc`[](https://www.kaggle.com/code/residentmario/indexing-selecting-assigning#Choosing-between-loc-and-iloc)

When choosing or transitioning between `loc` and `iloc`, there is one "gotcha" worth keeping in mind, which is that the two methods use slightly different indexing schemes.

`iloc` uses the Python stdlib indexing scheme, where the first element of the range is included and the last one excluded. So `0:10` will select entries `0,...,9`. `loc`, meanwhile, indexes inclusively. So `0:10` will select entries `0,...,10`.

Why the change? Remember that loc can index any stdlib type: strings, for example. If we have a DataFrame with index values `Apples, ..., Potatoes, ...`, and we want to select "all the alphabetical fruit choices between Apples and Potatoes", then it's a lot more convenient to index `df.loc['Apples':'Potatoes']` than it is to index something like `df.loc['Apples', 'Potatoet']` (`t` coming after `s` in the alphabet).

This is particularly confusing when the DataFrame index is a simple numerical list, e.g. `0,...,1000`. In this case `df.iloc[0:1000]` will return 1000 entries, while `df.loc[0:1000]` return 1001 of them! To get 1000 elements using `loc`, you will need to go one lower and ask for `df.loc[0:999]`.

Otherwise, the semantics of using `loc` are the same as those for `iloc`.
[[1.2d_Manipulating the index]]